Welcome to Section thirty four principal component analysis or PCA before you get some hands on experience
coming up with PCa in the practical exercises we're going to take a look at the intuition behind it.
PCa is considered to be one of the most used unsupervised algorithms and can be seen as the most popular
dimensionality reduction algorithm.
PCa is used for operations such as visualization feature extraction noise filtering and can be seen
in algorithms used for stock market predictions and gene analysis.
Just to name a few.
The goal of PCa is to identify and detect the correlation between variables.
If there is a strong correlation and it's found then you could reduce the dimensionality which really
what PCA is intended for.
You find the directions of maximum variance in high dimensional data and then you project it into a
smaller dimensional subspace.
While retaining most of the information usually again with PCa The goal to reduce the dimensions of
a D dimensional dataset by projecting onto a k dimensional subspace where k is less than D and for a
overall breakdown and wrap up of the PCA we can see here.
That the main functions of the PCA algorithm would be to standardize the data obtain the eigenvectors
and eigenvalues to then sort the eigenvalues in descending order.
Construct the projection matrix W from the selected K eigenvectors and to transform the original dataset.
And you can explore it further.
If you follow that link.
But one thing I want to examine here with PCa and I think the visualization is really helpful if we
visit the following link.
It's going to take us to this page where we can actually view it in 2D and three examples.
Now with PCa in a Tuti you can start to see the relationship in how PCA is playing out amongst the variables
in the data.
You can also on this site drag them around drag the data point around to see the PCA.
The coordinates are just within the system.
But really what I think is helpful is the three-D example with the 3D example.
You can actually see the relationship the data within this model and comparing it to the two D within
the higher dimensional space.
Obviously it can be a much easier visualization.
I think this is helpful really to kind of grasp what PCA is doing and if we drag the data points around
again just for a test we can click on the show PCA to reset that and will show it and we can see the
PCA.
Here you could actually move the model around since it's not on that to d plot.
We can visualize it within three days.
All right.
So to wrap PCA up short and sweet.
PCa is not like linear regression although it may look like it because rather than attempting to predict
the values PCA is attempting to learn about the relationship between x and y values quantified by finding
a list of principal axes.
And I think one of the best ways is to look at the visualizations.
You don't compare it to 2D and 3D dimension.
The analysis and the visualizations that we looked at before.
In addition you know on a side note PCA does have a weakness.
It is highly affected by outliers in the data but PCA is considered to be one of the most used and it's
extremely popular to use.
And I think once you start working through the practical it will make more sense if you have any questions
please let us know and enjoy machine learning.